dancing has been long revered for its
power to heal mind body and soul our
ancestors use it as a form of communion
with the divine these days I feel like
that's all been lost with drug enhance
Ray's and alcohol at nightclubs now
don't get me wrong to each their own but
a natural high is more my speed and
that's what brought me here to Dover
courthouse for ecstatic dance it's a fun
way to express yourself through freeform
dancing that's completely alcohol and
drug free aesthetic dance is the way
that we used to gather as people as a
tribe as a community we used to gather
and dance we look at ancient tribal
culture we realize that the second most
common activity seen in cave paintings
is actually dancing every week more than
60 people come out for ecstatic dance to
share their love from music movement and
community I love ecstatic dance because
it
sacred time its play time static dance
brings an experience where you're really
at peace you're really in the now like
this is the closest thing to church for
me it's the closest thing to to feeling
really connected to something bigger
than myself and to being part of a
community what's unique about static
dance is that it's more focused on a
dancers instead of the DJ and that can
be a bit intimidating for someone like
me who is new to this the ecstatic dance
experience is non guided and it's
co-created by everyone present one thing
to remember is that silence is golden
there's no teacher in this face there's
no guide in this space we're really
guiding our own practice but we learn
from each other there is no talking on
the dance floor so that you can feel
fully free and alive in your dance
when you take the talking out it really
emphasizes in the many ways that we
communicate with our eyes with our
energy with our body with our gestures
with our movements after 30 minutes of
warm up dancing the night begins with a
welcome circle we live in our heads you
know most of us are live from our necks
up and the energy is there were we're in
our heads were in our mind a lot so when
you dance you engage your whole body and
bring that energy down to explore the
whole terrain it's about abandoning my
mind and connecting with my true self on
the dance floor that means completely
letting go of my self-consciousness and
trusting in whatever movements arise and
what's really cool is if you dance
around the room you start connecting and
picking up on everyone else's ecstatic
vibe there's definitely a natural high
and there is something really wonderful
that would being in a space but a whole
bunch of people who you know they aren't
drinking or doing anything else but
they're just so engaged with the music
engaging with yourself engaging with the
new
just feel you for it at first for an
outsider ecstatic dance might be hard to
grasp there's no form like say salsa or
ballroom but I found myself easing into
it without any effort after all it's
free form how could you possibly go
wrong I've taken some swing classes
blues classes all Rome dances and having
to know steps was always a real struggle
for me so here it just feels like I'm a
dancer whereas if I go into those other
environments I have all of these
judgments I'm not doing it perfect I've
got two left feet so many of us are
going with the flow and we're there to
support and play with each other and
surprise each other it's like kids
playing again about an hour into the
dance the music rises to a climax as you
can see everyone is really into it right
now energy in the room is electric
everyone is moving and dancing and
building and there is a kind of peak and
a bubbling up that that happens where
we're almost like it were intoxicated
with bliss at a certain moment in the
evening there's a shift like it a switch
goes off and I just am not in my head I
forget all the day's tasks and
activities and noise and just feel so
happy and just I feel like a kid
as the 90-minute dance draws to a close
the music slows down bringing the
collective energy of the room to a
serene pace because it's so authentic
and totally unscripted you will find
yourself in more of a traditional
meditation more like a stillness I just
lie on the ground in peace
finally the night ends in a closing
circle it's just the the feeling of
being alive it's the feeling of really
coming into like what I'm capable of
doing and celebration celebration of of
now of the moment of dancing and music
and creation and art and life and I
think that's what's almost addictive
about this is that if you come back on a
weekly basis what happens is is that you
connect with a deeper side of yourself
and you're able to take that into the
into the real world and be a real world
ecstatic dancer a lot of people say to
me like I never thought I never thought
I could belong to a community like this
or I didn't know something like this
existed like sometimes it's hard to put
into words but it's like home you know
when you know that hey I found my tribe
I found the people this is where I
belong at you feel it in your soul my
sentiments exactly this was definitely a
transformative experience I too felt
that moment of bliss when I was on the
dance floor like I had truly found my
tribe I learned to let go of my
inhibitions and in the process connected
with myself and a community of new
people most of all I love that there's a
place I can go to dance every week where
I feel completely accepted whether I'm
skilled at it or not man what a workout
next time I'm going to remember to bring
lots of water
you